Let's see how we can best use spikes.
So what's a spike?
It's a controlled experiment to provide information and
hopefully to clarify any technical issues by setting aside the
complexities of the production code.
You would develop small,
isolated experiments when you need to prove a method or approach,
or just to seek additional information.
How to spike.
If possible, try and segregate the code so it doesn't affect your main code base.
We call this a sandbox, basically a place to experiment and throw away later,
but there is nothing wrong with dropping it right into your running code base.
But just make a branch in your source control tool for the
spike to keep it separate and isolated.
Don't write it like it's for production.
Remember, what you want is to prove a point,
a technique, or gather more information,
so quick and dirty would be fine with me.
Let's see how spikes affect sprints.
Maybe not at all.
If it is very small and you knocked it out in 15 to 20 minutes,
well, then great.
By adding slack to sprint planning though, we can accommodate spikes.
So if you know of a few research items for the next sprint, add some slack.
Ad hoc spikes.
Sometimes there's a last minute need for a spike.
If it is tiny, then, well, just do it.
Maybe check with your tech lead or discuss in the next standup to get a
general opinion or guidance on what to do for ad hoc spikes.
Avoid making your spike production code.
Please rewrite the spike code following your best practices if you're going to
implement the results of what you learned in your spike.
Remember, you might have developed a spike in a real quick and dirty way.
You may not have the right error handling,
and you may have not followed your best practices, so please avoid making your spike's production code.